---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/m/marsh-obed/"}
---

# Marsh, Obed

An “old limb of Satan,” [[A/Allen, Zadok\|Zadok Allen]] called him. In the early 19th century, [[M/Marsh, Obed\|Obed Marsh]] is a sea captain and the owner of three merchant sailing-ships, *[[C/Columbia\|Columbia]]*, *[[H/Hetty\|Hetty]]*, and *[[S/Sumatra Queen\|Sumatra Queen]]*. He is the only [[I/Innsmouth\|Innsmouth]] ship owner to persist in the long-haul East Indies and Pacific trade during the 1830s and 1840s, a round-trip that lasted several months and could be very dangerous. On the evidence of his life and deeds, Obed Marsh is a very intelligent, ambitious, and ruthless man. Zadok says: “never was nobody like Cap’n Obed...he cud read folks like they was books.” Zadok also remembers: “I kin mind {I can remember} him a-tellin abaout furren parts {foreign lands}, an’ calln’ all the folk stupid fer goin’ to Christian meetin’ and bearin’ their burdens meek an’ lowly. Says they orter {ought to} get better gods like some o’ the folk in the Injies {East Indies}—gods as ud {that would} bring ‘em good fishin’ in return for their sacrifices, an’ ud really answer folks’s prayers.” Some time around 1830, while on a voyage aboard *Sumatra Queen*, he finds an island east of Otaheite (Tahiti) and befriends its tribal chief, Walakea. He eventually learns from Walakea the secret of the islanders’ profitable relationship with the [[D/Deep Ones\|Deep Ones]]. During several subsequent voyages, Captain Marsh brings home golden jewelry from the [[D/Deep Ones\|Deep Ones]], and purchases an old mill to refine the gold into ingots that he can sell—the beginning of the [[Marsh Refining Company\|Marsh Refining Company]], which is still in business when the narrator visits Innsmouth in the 1920s. 

He returns to the Pacific island in 1838, and finds that the islanders have been exterminated by their neighbors. This terminates his gold business for the moment and hits his own income very hard, which in turn affects Innsmouth’s already-depressed economy. “That’s the time Obed he begun a-cursin’ at the folks fer bein’ dull sheep an’ prayin’ to a Christian heaven as didn’t help ‘em none.” He organizes the [[E/Esoteric Order of Dagon\|Esoteric Order of Dagon]], promising Innsmouthers that this new worship would bring them plenty of fish and gold. More and more people join the Order, and little Zadok Allen witnesses Obed Marsh and others rowing boats out to Devil Reef late at night, chanting and dropping objects—including human sacrifices—into the deep water. Then Marsh “begun to git on his feet agin {again}”; his refinery is always busy, and his daughters wear splendid golden jewelry.

—Pearsall, Anthony. *Lovecraft Lexicon*. New Falcon Publications.